Caveats in using the 2013 of Tournamentsoftware.COM  BTP program.


abbreviations used:
   
  TS   tournamentsoftware.com (i.e. web database)
  BTP  the tournament program (i.e. computer database)
  TD   tournament director


1 although players get a nice feedback on what they've done in the registration,
  the TD receives nothing, despite his email is on the website. 
  Not until they pull info from TS to BTP, which often is in a bulk load.

  Workaround?   none, keep on clicking Internet->Entries->Next->.....

  The other side effect is that I need to do extra work to get the players
  in my own mail data base, 

2 some of the info a player makes, will not be re-sent to BTP for an existing
  tournament. Worse yet, if you edit the BTP versionm, TS will overwrite it
  again.

  There a half-lie on the TS pages about this.

3 after player registered, it claims they need to contact TD for changes.
  that's not true, until the deadline they can make the changes themselves.

4 for certain changes, the pull from TS results in a suggestions there are
  no updates, but one more click shows there are actually updates
  (e.g. if a comment was added)

  This is also truely annoying, as you have no idea what was changed in an 
  entry.  An email (item 4) would resolve this.


5. cannot do genderless singles and doubles?

6. Cannot merge database.  THe most common one is the desk running the 
   tournament and registration to clean up the membership info.

7. Once you've published, registered players will show up on the Players
   list. If you don't want this to happen....
   (junichi talking)
   you need to clear the database in a backup version, publish that
   and don't publish again....
   (of course this is silly, you couldn't update regulations etc.)
   So this is another issue with TS, because not all tournaments want to
   reveal their players during the registration period to prevent players
   from biasing their entry based on who they see.
   [is that a internationally recognized valid concern]


If someone entry available or not available time, TP tell you the
conflict when you schedule the match. (Player is not available!) That
is very annoying.

I know that is problem. You should not change any address (especially
State information) or membership number until online entry close.


Only note filed will not be overwritten. I always copy membership
information from USAB website and paste to Note filed of TP.

 

Du Jing   #2035064       04/15/2014    04/07/1962   Rutherford, NJ

 

Regards,



xx.    The "Find"  does not do anything useful if you don't know the last name,
       i.e. it does not search for middle parts in the name. completely useless.

xx.    No flexibility for MDJO to set the age reached at some speficified 
       (e.g. tournament) vs. end of year.


xx.    Exporting player database produces an empty Sheet2 which
       there is no Sheet1. There is a proper file header, just	
       no data.

       Player -> Player database -> Export Player Database

       this produces a small XLS file.
       Tried this with and without ctrl-A (select all) while displaying the
       players.

xx.    Can it be made easier for a person to sign up a whole team , such that
       accounts are created where information is inherited from a previous
       account?


xx     If we change somebody's entry, the parents don't see this change, the
       database in TS is now different.

xx     Manual entry cannot  pick a club???
       I recall i entered all the DOB 's, but they're all gone from the DB now.



order of things to do once we get close to the end:


- save TPBACKUP files frequently
- save a spreadsheet from      Draw->Export to Excel
- save first time matches for website


Alternative methods:

If there's some other type of processing you like to do to a TP file, there are
two ways:

- export the data as an XLS spreadsheet and use tools to work on those. This can quickly
  get very hairy, as there is no good defineable remnant of the concept we call
  a Database in the First Normal Form. See below for a better approach, but I know
  from experience a lot of people think they understand complex XLS files and
  just point and click their life away from such a well defined database, and wind
  up with something only they understand its provenance.

  Example: if you want to do some registration and money at the desk, while
  the TD is using BTP, you're screwed, you have to do something (be it on paper,
  be it in XLS) that later may need to get back into the official BTP version, 
  at least if you care about getting your TP file in correct shape.  It may very
  well be that your treasurer is happy with an XLS file, which of course a lot
  more people understand than a TP file. So, the pragmatic approach may just be
  an XLS file.
  Use:   Players -> Export ... ->


- use tools that understand a Microsoft Access Database.
  I have experience using a python based tool
  Others have used Java to peel open and use this to define a ranking system.
  The key in this example was to have a unique identifier for each player,
  which of course in our case is the USAB membership number.
  
